Trans 2dsbp (#441)
Oneflow-Inc/oneflow-documentation: en/docs/parallelism/07_2dsbp.md

# 2D SBP

After reading the [global view](./02_sbp.md) and [Global Tensor](./03_consistent_tensor.md), I believe you have mastered the basic concepts of SBP and SBP Signature, and can get started with related programming tasks. In fact, the above information refers to **1D SBP**.

This article will introduce 2D SBP based on the reader's mastery of 1D SBP, which can more flexibly deal with more complex distributed training scenarios.

> ## 2D devices matrix

Reviewer: 中文的”设备阵列“， 引文版是翻译成 devices matrix 好，还是 devices array 好呢？我觉得 matrix 酷一点……

@hjchen2 @strint

> ## 2D devices matrix

Reviewer 2: nd array of devices 【ND的设备阵列】
- nd-array of processs/ranks
- device type: cpu/cuda

1D到ND都可以说是设备阵列

> ## 2D devices matrix

Reviewer 3: 两个都可以吧，不过我也觉得matrix更酷一点

We are already familiar with the placement configuration of 1D SBP. In the scenario of 1D SBP, configure the cluster through the [oneflow.placement](https://oneflow.readthedocs.io/en/master/placement.html#oneflow.placement) interface, such as using the 0~3 GPU graphics cards in the cluster:

```python
>>> placement1 = flow.placement("cuda", ranks=[0, 1, 2, 3])
```

The above `"cuda"` specifies the device type, and `ranks=[0, 1, 2, 3]` specifies the computing devices in the cluster. In fact, `ranks` can be not only a one-dimensional int list, but also a multi-dimensional int array:

```python
>>> placement2 = flow.placement("cuda", ranks=[[0, 1], [2, 3]])
```

When `ranks` is in the form of a one-dimensional list like `ranks=[0, 1, 2, 3]`, all devices in the cluster form a 1D device vector, which is where the 1D SBP name comes from.

> When `ranks` is in the form of a multi-dimensional array, the devices in the cluster are grouped into a multi-dimensional array of devices. `ranks=[[0, 1], [2, 3]]` means that the four computing devices in the cluster are divided into $2 \times 2$ device arrays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `ranks` is in the form of a multi-dimensional array, the devices in the cluster are grouped into a multi-dimensional array of devices. `ranks=[[0, 1], [2, 3]]` means that the four computing devices in the cluster are divided into a $2 \times 2$ devices matrix.
```
